.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii featsel.1
.\"
.TH FEATSEL 1 "FEBRUARY 2017" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
featsel \- a framework for benchmarking of feature selection algorithms
and cost functions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B featsel [-h] [-f
.I input-file-name
.B ]
.B [ -c
.I cost-function-name
.B ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B featsel
receives a set
.B S
of objects, values associated with each
of them, a cost function
.B c
with subsets of S as domain
and real numbers as image, and searches for a subset
X in S such as c(X) is minimum (i.e., there are no
Y in S, such as c(Y) < c(X)).
The minima subsets found are printed into the standard
output.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-a algorithm-name"
Selects the
.I algorithm-name
as the algorithm used in the search. The default value is
.I ubb
(U-curve Branch and Bound); other valid names are
.I bfs
(Best-First Search),
.I es
(Exhaustive Search),
.I rc
(a Random Chain of the search space),
.I sbfs
(Sequential Backward Floating Selection),
.I sbs
(Sequential Backward Selection),
.I sffs
(Sequential Forward Floating Selection),
.I sfs
(Sequential Forward Selection),
.I spec_cmi
(SPEC-CMI), and
.I ucs
(U-Curve-Search).

.IP "-c cost-function-name"
Selects the
.I cost-function-name
as the cost function of the search. The default value is
.I subset_sum;
(polynomial reduction from the subset sum problem); other valid names are
.I abd
(Atashpaz-Gargari, Braga-Neto, Dougherty),
.I cfs
(Correlation-based Feature Selection),
.I cmi
(Conditional Mutual Information),
.I explicit
(cost function values explicitly defined from file),
.I hamming_distance,
(the Hamming distance),
.I mce
(Mean Conditional Entropy),
.I mi
(Mutual Information), and
.I cmi
(Conditional Mutual Information),
.I point
(constant cost function except for a single element of mininum cost), and
.I tailor
(computes a convex hull for subsets of an instance of the Tailor problem).

.IP "-f input-file-name"
Uses as instance either a XML or a DAT file
.I input-file-name,
containing the elements of the set, their names and values.
.IP -h
Displays this help screen.
.IP "-m number-of-minima"
The number of minima to be showed in the standard output. It
should be and integer grater than zero, and the default value
is 1.
.IP "-n number-of-elements"
If the option -n is not used, featsel creates a random set with
.I number-of-elements
elements with a single value. It should be an integer
greater than zero. The default value is 3.
.IP "-l number-of-labels"
If the option -l is not used and the input is a .DAT file,
then featsel assumes that the instance has 2 labels.
.IP "-r range"
If the option -f is not used, creates the elements of
the random set with a single value greater or equal than
zero and less than
.I range.
The default value is 1000.
.IP -s
Stores all the visited subsets into the file called
.I visited.log
.IP "-t max-number-of-calls-of-cost-function"
Set a
.I max-number-of-calls-of-cost-function,
a threshold value to end the execution if the cost function is computed
that number of times.

.SH FILES
.I etc/featsel.conf
.RS
The program configuration file (not implemented yet).
.RE
.I etc/costfunc.conf
.RS
Configuration of the cost function lexical/syntactic analyzer (not implemented yet).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP PATH
May be useful to add the full pathname of the directory where the featsel binary
is located. The configuration files must be at the same directory of the binary.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
.RE
Bad magic number.
.RS
The input file does not look like a XML file.
.RE
Bad cost.
.RS
.B "cost-function-name"
given is not a valid one.
.SH BUGS
XML parsing should be improved.
.SH AUTHOR
Marcelo S. Reis < marcelo.reis at butantan dot gov dot br>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR featsel (1)
